docs/cli.md, before:

# CLI

The CLI (**C**ommand **L**ine **I**nterface) is the official way to control your Chameleon.

It requires at least **Python 3.9** version.

## Installing

There are multiple ways to install the CLI, depending on your OS.

### Windows

Windows users have the choice of 4 options:

#### ProxSpace

Using ProxSpace to build the CLI is the easiest and most comfortable way to get started.

1. Download ProxSpace from the [official GitHub](https://github.com/Gator96100/ProxSpace/releases/latest)

2. [Download 7zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) to extract the archive

3. Install 7zip by double clicking the Installer and clicking `Install`

4. Right-click on the downloaded archive and select `7zip -> Unpack to "ProxSpace"`

5. Open a terminal in the proxspace folder. If you are on a new Windows install, you should be able to just right-click and select `Open in Terminal`. If that option is not visible and the ProxSpace folder is still in your downloads folder, press `win+r` and type `powershell` followed by enter. In Powershell now type `cd ~/Downloads/ProxSpace`

6. Run the command `.\runme64.bat`. After successful completion, you should be dropped to the `pm3 ~ $` shell.

7. Clone the Repository by typing `git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git`

8. Now go into the newly created folder with `cd ChameleonUltra/software/src`

9. Prepare for package installation with `pacman-key --init; pacman-key --populate; pacman -S msys2-keyring --noconfirm; pacman-key --refresh`

10. Proceed by installing Ninja with `pacman -S ninja --noconfirm`

11. Build the required config by running `cmake .`

12. And the binaries with `cmake --build .`

13. Go into the script folder with `cd ~/ChameleonUltra/software/script/`

14. Install python requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

15. Finally run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

To use after installing, just do the following:

1. Run `runme64.bat`

2. Go into the script folder with `cd ~/ChameleonUltra/software/script/`

3. Run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

#### WSL2

Coming Soon

#### WSL1

Coming Soon

#### Build Natively

Building natively is a bit more advanced and not recommended for beginners

1. Download and install [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/de/downloads/)

2. On the workload selection screen, choose the `Desktop development with C++` workload. Click `Download and Install`

3. Download and install [git](https://git-scm.com/download). When asked, add to your path

4. Download and install [cmake](https://cmake.org/download/). Again, when asked, add to your path

5. Download and install [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/). When asked, add to your path (small checkbox in the bottom left). Python 3.9 or above is required.

6. Choose a suitable location and open a terminal. Clone the repository with `git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git`

7. Change into the binaries folder with `cd ChameleonUltra/software/src`

8. Build the required config by running `cmake .`

9. And the binaries with `cmake --build .`

10. Copy the binaries by running `cp -r ../bin/Debug/* ../script/`

11. Go into the script folder with `cd ../script/`

12. Create a python virtual environment with `python -m venv venv`

13. Activate it by running `.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

14. Install python requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

15. Finally run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

To run again after installing, just do the following:

1. Activate venv by running `.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

2. Run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

### Linux

Install the dependencies
  - Ubuntu / Debian:  
  `sudo apt install git cmake build-essential python3-venv`
  - Arch:  
  `sudo pacman -S  git cmake base-devel python3`

Python 3.9 or above is required.

Run the following script to clone the Repository, compile the tools and install Python dependencies in a virtual environment.

```sh
#!/bin/bash

git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git
(
  cd ChameleonUltra/software/src
  mkdir -p out
  (
    cd out
    cmake ..
    cmake --build . --config Release
  )
)
(
  cd ChameleonUltra/software/script
  python3 -m venv venv
  source venv/bin/activate
  pip3 install -r requirements.txt
  deactivate
)
```

To run the client after installing, do the following:

```sh
cd ChameleonUltra/software/script
source venv/bin/activate
python3 chameleon_cli_main.py
deactivate
```

### MacOS

*Coming Soon*

## Usage

When in the CLI, plug in your Chameleon and connect with `hw connect`. If autodetection fails, get the Serial Port used by your Chameleon and run `hw connect -p COM11` (Replace `COM11` with your serial port, on Linux it may be `/dev/ttyACM0`)

### MFKEY32v2 walk-through
Make sure to be in the `software/` directory and run the Python CLI from there.

```sh
# Connect to the CLI
hw connect
# Check which slot can be used
hw slot list
# Change the slot type, here using slot 8 for a MFC 1k emulation
hw slot type -s 8 -t MIFARE_1024
# Init the slot content
hw slot init -s 8 -t MIFARE_1024
# or load an existing dump and set UID and anticollision data,
# cf 'hf mf eload' and 'hf mf econfig'
# Enable the slot
hw slot enable -s 8 --hf
# Change to the new slot
hw slot change -s 8
# Activate the authentication logs
hf mf econfig --enable-log
```
Now disconnect, go to a reader and swipe it a few times

Come back

```sh
# connect to the CLI
hw connect
# See if nonces were collected. We need 2 nonces per key to recover
hf mf elog
# Recover the key(s) based on the collected nonces
hf mf elog --decrypt
# Clean the logged detection nonces
hf mf econfig --disable-log
```
  Output example:
```
 - MF1 detection log count = 6, start download.
 - Download done (144bytes), start parse and decrypt
 - Detection log for uid [DEADBEEF]
  > Block 0 detect log decrypting...
  > Block 1 detect log decrypting...
  > Result ---------------------------
  > Block 0, A key result: ['a0a1a2a3a4a5', 'aabbccddeeff']
  > Block 1, A key result: ['010203040506']

```


*More examples coming soon*

Commit message:

Docs for cli on MacOS (#190)
Co-authored-by: “bring42” <“Benno657@student.liu.se”>

docs/cli.md, after:

# CLI

The CLI (**C**ommand **L**ine **I**nterface) is the official way to control your Chameleon.

It requires at least **Python 3.9** version.

## Installing

There are multiple ways to install the CLI, depending on your OS.

### Windows

Windows users have the choice of 4 options:

#### ProxSpace

Using ProxSpace to build the CLI is the easiest and most comfortable way to get started.

1. Download ProxSpace from the [official GitHub](https://github.com/Gator96100/ProxSpace/releases/latest)

2. [Download 7zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) to extract the archive

3. Install 7zip by double clicking the Installer and clicking `Install`

4. Right-click on the downloaded archive and select `7zip -> Unpack to "ProxSpace"`

5. Open a terminal in the proxspace folder. If you are on a new Windows install, you should be able to just right-click and select `Open in Terminal`. If that option is not visible and the ProxSpace folder is still in your downloads folder, press `win+r` and type `powershell` followed by enter. In Powershell now type `cd ~/Downloads/ProxSpace`

6. Run the command `.\runme64.bat`. After successful completion, you should be dropped to the `pm3 ~ $` shell.

7. Clone the Repository by typing `git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git`

8. Now go into the newly created folder with `cd ChameleonUltra/software/src`

9. Prepare for package installation with `pacman-key --init; pacman-key --populate; pacman -S msys2-keyring --noconfirm; pacman-key --refresh`

10. Proceed by installing Ninja with `pacman -S ninja --noconfirm`

11. Build the required config by running `cmake .`

12. And the binaries with `cmake --build .`

13. Go into the script folder with `cd ~/ChameleonUltra/software/script/`

14. Install python requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

15. Finally run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

To use after installing, just do the following:

1. Run `runme64.bat`

2. Go into the script folder with `cd ~/ChameleonUltra/software/script/`

3. Run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

#### WSL2

Coming Soon

#### WSL1

Coming Soon

#### Build Natively

Building natively is a bit more advanced and not recommended for beginners

1. Download and install [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/de/downloads/)

2. On the workload selection screen, choose the `Desktop development with C++` workload. Click `Download and Install`

3. Download and install [git](https://git-scm.com/download). When asked, add to your path

4. Download and install [cmake](https://cmake.org/download/). Again, when asked, add to your path

5. Download and install [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/). When asked, add to your path (small checkbox in the bottom left). Python 3.9 or above is required.

6. Choose a suitable location and open a terminal. Clone the repository with `git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git`

7. Change into the binaries folder with `cd ChameleonUltra/software/src`

8. Build the required config by running `cmake .`

9. And the binaries with `cmake --build .`

10. Copy the binaries by running `cp -r ../bin/Debug/* ../script/`

11. Go into the script folder with `cd ../script/`

12. Create a python virtual environment with `python -m venv venv`

13. Activate it by running `.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

14. Install python requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

15. Finally run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

To run again after installing, just do the following:

1. Activate venv by running `.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

2. Run the CLI with `python chameleon_cli_main.py`

### MacOS

Requires [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) to be installed.
  - If you don't have Homebrew installed on your macOS, open the Terminal and run: 
  `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"`

See Linux/Macos instructions below for the rest.

### Linux / MacOS

Install the dependencies
  - Ubuntu / Debian:  
  `sudo apt install git cmake build-essential python3-venv`
  - Arch:  
  `sudo pacman -S  git cmake base-devel python3`
  - MacOS:
  `brew install git cmake python3`

Python 3.9 or above is required.

Run the following script to clone the Repository, compile the tools and install Python dependencies in a virtual environment.

```sh
#!/bin/bash

git clone https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/ChameleonUltra.git
(
  cd ChameleonUltra/software/src
  mkdir -p out
  (
    cd out
    cmake ..
    cmake --build . --config Release
  )
)
(
  cd ChameleonUltra/software/script
  python3 -m venv venv
  source venv/bin/activate
  pip3 install -r requirements.txt
  deactivate
)
```

To run the client after installing, do the following:

```sh
cd ChameleonUltra/software/script
source venv/bin/activate
python3 chameleon_cli_main.py
deactivate
```

## Usage

When in the CLI, plug in your Chameleon and connect with `hw connect`. If autodetection fails, get the Serial Port used by your Chameleon and run `hw connect -p COM11` (Replace `COM11` with your serial port, on Linux it may be `/dev/ttyACM0`)

### MFKEY32v2 walk-through
Make sure to be in the `software/` directory and run the Python CLI from there.

```sh
# Connect to the CLI
hw connect
# Check which slot can be used
hw slot list
# Change the slot type, here using slot 8 for a MFC 1k emulation
hw slot type -s 8 -t MIFARE_1024
# Init the slot content
hw slot init -s 8 -t MIFARE_1024
# or load an existing dump and set UID and anticollision data,
# cf 'hf mf eload' and 'hf mf econfig'
# Enable the slot
hw slot enable -s 8 --hf
# Change to the new slot
hw slot change -s 8
# Activate the authentication logs
hf mf econfig --enable-log
```
Now disconnect, go to a reader and swipe it a few times

Come back

```sh
# connect to the CLI
hw connect
# See if nonces were collected. We need 2 nonces per key to recover
hf mf elog
# Recover the key(s) based on the collected nonces
hf mf elog --decrypt
# Clean the logged detection nonces
hf mf econfig --disable-log
```
  Output example:
```
 - MF1 detection log count = 6, start download.
 - Download done (144bytes), start parse and decrypt
 - Detection log for uid [DEADBEEF]
  > Block 0 detect log decrypting...
  > Block 1 detect log decrypting...
  > Result ---------------------------
  > Block 0, A key result: ['a0a1a2a3a4a5', 'aabbccddeeff']
  > Block 1, A key result: ['010203040506']

```


*More examples coming soon*
